***
[Name: #hardware; Description: None; Guild: KoboldAI]
***
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Sweet: Pinned a message.
gold9: I built a machine to run GPT-J and GPT-2 XL through KoboldAI. The motherboard I used was the HUANANZHI X99 F8. I tunneled air to the card using a washing machine tube and a 3D printed socket with a 120mm turbo blower fan, along with a Tesla M40, Xenon 2650, and 128GB REG ECC. Display: Display outputs are not available on Tesla cards, which are designed for datacenters. My first attempt involved pairing a Tesla M40 (24GB) with a Geforce 710 (2GB). Due to the nvidia eco system driver division, these cards do not operate on the same platform. Geforce drivers may work well with datacenter drivers, but there will be fringe issues. When I tried to boot Telsa with a 710 geforce, I encountered all kinds of errors. After I install Tesla with 710, I can only boot Tesla once, but it switches to Tesla in the second boot and I end up getting an error message from x99 F8. In order to prevent any conflict between the driver and motherboard, I chose the ATI 4600 from 2008. The job can, however, be done with any GPU from AMD, Intel, or Nvidia Quadro. Cooling: In my experiment, I used a 120mm blower solution that is suited for burst loads only. It was perfect for working with KoboldAI. I was able to run them at slower speeds due to their larger size, and the pitch sound of 120mm is much quieter than direct mount twin 36mm server blower fans. Later I will probably switch back to 36mm twain configuration with a PWM speed controller to make training and deploying easier.
gold9: [Image attached]
Sweet: Sounds promising for me then, i got the Vega 64 so an M40 should play along
gold9: it was really bad attempt and to pair it with Geforce! Vega 64 is great
Sweet: I might yolo it 😛
Sweet: Time to shine a flashlight in my case to see if it fits
gold9: The GPU market price is skyrocket at the moment. Vega 64 costs 700 last time I checked
Sweet: I bought the Vega 64 for 650 but last time i checked its selling over $1000 now
Sweet: But i bought it new for 650
Sweet: For the M40 it should work with 'Above 4G Crypto Mining support' right?
gold9: You can hunt them from Aliexpress. I wouldn't do it but you can 🤣
Sweet: Can't access my bios the runtime 7z is still uploading
gold9: I didn't test it yet but it should
gold9: What do you have for motherboard ?
Sweet: [File URL attached]
gold9: 3000 series Ryzen ?
Sweet: 1000
Sweet: Its from 2017
Sweet: 3000 is supported but not in it
gold9: They are still way better than outdate Xenon. I only got them because they support high REG ECC
Sweet: And its overclocked to 3,9GHz
Sweet: First gen ryzens have terrible stock clocks but a lot of overclocking headroom
Sweet: I could go from 3,4GHz to 3,9GHz without increasing the voltage
Sweet: So the difference with the 2nd gen is smaller
Sweet: These days Ryzens kinda auto overclock, so they run much faster but barely any overclocking gains
gold9: They are very efficient node. I will always choose the AMD AM4 socket over the Intel 2011V3 any day. I bought two motherboards as 2011v3 had a lot of issues
Sweet: My motherboard has a lot of issues to unfortunately
Sweet: All Ryzens did
Sweet: But the problem got so noticable and terrible at the 5000 series they actually fixed it
gold9: I have another machine with B450 but it is OME Asus motherboard
gold9: I have issues with USB
gold9: Razer keyboard weirdly disconnected during boot
Sweet: USB + Audio for me
gold9: I test it with other machine but I read that Ryzen X370, B450 and B550 have issues with USB
Sweet: Some USB disconnects happen for me if things are turning on, and in Linux the audio controller is all wrong despite working fine on intel
Sweet: Then they released that Ryzen 5000 bios update and those users reported it was fixed
Sweet: So it seems like its not the USB thats the issue, but the PCI controller itself
gold9: I thought Ryzen have the USB controller built inside Ryzen processor
Sweet: Only for some ports
Sweet: Those are typically the ones people advice to use
gold9: I will try testing with different ports to see if it resolves the issue
Sweet: Typically the ones closest to the CPU
Sweet: Use a tool like HWInfo to check which controller they are on
gold9: I am using USB switch to switch the USB on and off again 🤣
Sweet: For me with some USB drive enclosures the external HDD resets when my monitor comes on or when certain setup programs are ran
gold9: I can not see USB listed in HWInfo
Sweet: Its under ports
Sweet: [Image attached]
Sweet: For me the USB 3.10 is the motherboard one
Sweet: I mean CPU
gold9: I don't see the USB option
Sweet: Thats the sensor tab
Sweet: You want the main menu
gold9: How to open the main menu ? There are only setting with same option listed in it
Sweet: Open HWInfo then don't do any checkboxes for sensors only and stuff
Sweet: It will open a ton of screens
Sweet: Including the main screen
Sweet: [Image attached]
gold9: oh thxs yeah, I see it now
Sweet: Hard to tell in your case
Sweet: But one of them is the CPU so if one is giving issues try the other one haha
Sweet: I assume the top one is the CPU for you
Sweet: In my case its only like 4 ports on the back and the front ports
gold9: I have 6 ports. Two are USB 3.1 and the others USB 3
Sweet: This says all of them are USB 3.1
Sweet: But your GPU apparently has USB ports to, so you could always try plugging the razer in your GPU
gold9: Proablly than 3.2 and 3.1 haha They are color coded differently in the back blue and green
gold9: I kind lost with all new USB color code
Sweet: Maybe to differentiate which ones are on the CPU?
Sweet: Green isn't anything i know off
Sweet: Blue is USB3.X
gold9: It is Asus GL10DH with B450 chip
gold9: I assumed it had the default port option of B450
gold9: It said "AMD Turbo USB 3.2 GEN2"
gold9: [Image attached]
gold9: They are all 3.2 but some Gen 1 and other gen 2
Sweet: Decided to roll with it and try my luck on this
Sweet: Prices already went up slightly and i don't think that trend is going to stop as i am noticing the M40's go pretty rapidly on ebay
Sweet: So i bought myself an M40 😄
Sweet: Motherboard supports PCI Gen2, and Above 4G support
gold9: I paid 360$ with shipping for the Tesla M40 24GB. I am not in US right now, but you can get it on eBay for ~270$. The Tesla M40 performs similarly to the 1060 super and 1070. There are a lot of people using it to play games as a cheaper alternative with all the crazy pricing. So, it will always worth something and a good investment
gold9: [File URL attached]
Sweet: Yup thats the one i bought
Sweet: I did have to pay around $100 in shipping + import tax though
gold9: You should get https://www.aliexpress.com/item/4000505282893.html?spm=a2g0s.9042311.0.0.67a44c4dbJGrHc
gold9: The original GPU server bracket did not fit into my Corsair case so I had to replace it
gold9: You will also need an 8pin to Dual 8pin Power Cable: https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32692411159.html?spm=a2g0s.9042311.0.0.67a44c4dtGt6h6
Carena: Saving up for my own hardware... Stuff is expensive 😦
gold9: world-wide shortage 💀 The same build would cost me no more than 600 USD in 2019. There were a lot of Intel Xeon workstations selling for 200 and 300 with 128GB ram and Tesla M40, the total cost would be around 700$ max, as everyone was switching to AMD Ryzen. Until this day, a 650W Corsair power supply, case, motherboard, 256GB SSD, and old Haswell Intel Xeon 2650 with 10 cores will cost you 300. The price only high on GPU and Memory. I paid 480$ for 128GB of ECC REG RAM, and 360$ for the GPU. It was possible to find ECC REG RAM on ebay for 280$ and GPU for 200$ with shipping.
gold9: Best we to do it by getting old workstation or PC and pair it with M40
Carena: I have a server, but that one is just a nono when it comes to hardware.
Carena: Also have an Nvidia Jetson AGX that works really well for inference 🙂
Carena: I use it to run colab on 😄
gold9: I was planning to get Nvidia Jetson AGX but they cost as much as whole build right now 🤣
gold9: that 30W is just amazing and great for 24/7 operation. I have to make a box for my build
Carena: I know, one of the reasons why I said I wanted to have a "cloud"-based Colab 😛
Sweet: Do i need that power cable for the M40? Since it needs 8-pin + 6-pin
Sweet: Looks like it, ordering one
gold9: Yes, I thought of retrofitting it, but the 8 pins that came with power supplies are a bit thick and the 3d print fan mount is in a tight space to reroute the cable under it. You would have to get slim fit cables. Retrofitting was not worth the trouble.
gold9: What type of power supply do you have? When using Vega 64 and M40 on the same machine, you may require a beefy power supply upgrade!
Sweet: Ill be fine 😄
Sweet: The Vega 64 uses 3W in desktop mode
Sweet: And i won't be gaming while running the tesla
Sweet: I assume the tesla also only draws power when its used
gold9: When used Tesla with KoboldAI draw ~30W
Sweet: Thats nothing then
Sweet: How about idle?
gold9: 15W
Sweet: Thats pretty high idle draw then
Sweet: But nothing for me to worry about i got plenty of headroom
gold9: If I recall correctly
Sweet: The PSU is 850w
Sweet: And its not a budget PSU either
gold9: I just lost a machine for junky power supply
gold9: but yeah, you will probably fine! 850W is enough at max
Sweet: For sure
Sweet: My Vega is a hungry card
Sweet: It can peak at 300W
gold9: 300W for tesla, 300W for Vega 64 and 1700x will probably max at 85W
Sweet: I originally had some system crashes with 650W (Turned out to be heat not power) so i one upped
Sweet: Ill max the 1700X and check
gold9: Is it overclocked ?
Sweet: Yup
Sweet: But not overvolted
gold9: Does B350 support 5000 series ?
Sweet: Package power 163w
Sweet: You will have to check your specific motherboard
Sweet: But generally speaking no
Sweet: But yeah CPU package power is 166W
Sweet: So fans, soc, cpu, etc
gold9: I recall some post about some motherboard of B350 supported
gold9: 166W(CPU)+300W(Tesla)+300W(Vega) = 766W
Sweet: Plus a little bit for everything else of course
Sweet: But at that point my cooling would probably give out
gold9: Hopefully when I upgrade, the Nvidia Quadro RTX 8000 will be available for the same price as Tesla M40 🤣
gold9: Did you order fan's for it ?
Sweet: Nope
Sweet: Going to run it without a fan first
Sweet: Especially if it only draws 30w when using kobold
Sweet: For context i got a high airflow case
Sweet: [Image attached]
Sweet: So with a bit of luck those front fans are enough
Sweet: They produce a lot of airflow when maxed out
gold9: I am booting it to check what is the temp without the fan
gold9: [Image attached]
gold9: With GPT-J model
gold9: But the temp rise up gradually
Sweet: Do they also go down gradually?
gold9: I don't see it going down
gold9: [Image attached]
gold9: Check hot spot
Sweet: Its not a really bad temp though
Sweet: Hot spot yes, but general gpu temp no
gold9: I think it is fine, it rated for up to 90C
Sweet: Wonder why it draws 60w doing this though
Sweet: Its not really doing anything
gold9: nothing
Sweet: Really bad power draw for a home PC
Sweet: But oh well
gold9: I feel if I leave with no fan it will reach 90C and triger temp safty in the board
Sweet: Seems to be the memory controller though
Sweet: Probably in your case
Sweet: But in my case the heat will rise to my PC and possibly trigger the front fans
Sweet: Can you exit kobold and see what happens?
gold9: [Image attached]
gold9: It drops to 20W
Sweet: Much better
Sweet: So its the memory
Sweet: I bet the temps will become a lot better now
gold9: you can tunnel the air out of one of the fans to the card
Sweet: Yup but all the airflow in the case is as wide as the case and very direct
Sweet: So i think just having the big fans on when i use it should be enough
Sweet: How much is it dropping for you now kobold's off?
gold9: Just reopened Kobold with fan max to check the maximum consumption when I connect to the client
gold9: Even with my setup, it started to heat up when I opened the client and cooled down when Kobold idle
gold9: I am using Corsair 4000D which is well ventilated
Sweet: How did you rig yours up?
gold9: [Image attached]
Sweet: Fans on the front or solid panel on the front?
gold9: One fan in the front and one in the back while the tesla use 120mm blower to cool down
gold9: But the whole top of the case is open case
Sweet: Mine is more directed airflow then
Sweet: Given my giant fans on the front
Sweet: It will be blowing directly against the card
gold9: the case open in the top cause the airflow to be less directed. So, I am kind force to use direct airflow with the card.
Sweet: Mine is also open at the top
Sweet: But i'm pretty sure it can also be closed
Sweet: But since its two fans ill probably be able to get away with it
Sweet: Its going to be hit by the bottom fan, while the top fan handles the CPU area
gold9: After I receive my 36mm fan I will check another setup this week
gold9: I got the chance to run GPT J with the current setup to write me some HTML, C, Java and Kotlin. It is unlikely that it will require a heavy cooling system.
gold9: They looks like 140mm fans
Sweet: I think they are
Sweet: 200mm
gold9: Is this full tower ?
Sweet: Yup
gold9: damn that is humongous fans lamo
Sweet: Which is why i didn't order fans for the card haha
Sweet: When these are on full blast you literally hear the air move
gold9: Would love to see the final build! The 36mm fans are super loud consider the high RPM. You have the advantage of running lower RPM with higher air flow
Sweet: Not just that
Sweet: On full blast the fans aren't even that loud
Sweet: You just hear wind
Sweet: Its 1226rpm peak
Sweet: Although that might have been my back fan
Sweet: I don't think these report a rpm
gold9: I was considering two 200mm noctua fans for the top ventilation
Sweet: Hows your K80 @Valerian ?
Riehl: still waiting on the power cable that combines to PCI power ables. >:/
Sweet: Also ordered one of those at the same time with the card
Riehl: and I need a GPU that fits a X1 slot..
Riehl: I did two, but they were from different sellers.
Riehl: got your M40 running?
Sweet: Its in the mail
Sweet: Anything in europe was $700
Sweet: So it will take a while
Riehl: the motherboard i have doesn't have integrated video.
Riehl: oh lord.
Sweet: So beginning of october most likely
Riehl: :hype:
Riehl: another issue is .. apparently the Tesla series drivers are kind of garbage.
Sweet: Ordered one of those PSU adapters on ali, so hopefully they arrive around the same time
Sweet: Drivers i have no fear in
Riehl: i'm researching the issue - apparently there are other drivers that play nicer with the Tesla GPUs
Sweet: I work as an IT tech support
Sweet: / system administrators
Sweet: Drivers are kind of my thing haha
Riehl: oh sweet.
Riehl: what would you recommend doing, then?
Sweet: So if it takes some tinkering thats fun
Sweet: From what i saw there are multiple different cuda versions bundled in the driver
Sweet: So my first step will be matching what KoboldAI uses with whats in the driver
Sweet: And not having an existing nvidia card will help
Sweet: So my AMD should allow me to use it
Riehl: I uh..
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: *thought* about doing this to one of my existing low-end GPUS..
Riehl: to make it fit a X1 PCI slot.
Riehl: it supposedly works? ... but is highly not recommended.
Sweet: I saw RX550's sometimes have single slot varients
Sweet: For KoboldAi currently the cuda version is locked on 11.1
Riehl: doing driver research?
Sweet: Yup
Riehl: it's awesome you work in tech support. 🙂
Sweet: Looks like they don't have that
Sweet: Its my work in tech / sys admin that allowed me to build those install scripts much easier
Sweet: Figuring out how to install stuff is my thing
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: this was the X1 GPU I found .. but it requires an adapter for my monitors to work.
Sweet: What output do you need?
Riehl: just basic video.
Sweet: VGA?
Sweet: Or HDMI
Riehl: HDMI or DVI apaters
Sweet: Isn't that output DVI?
Riehl: i have converters for both DVI and VGA plugs
Sweet: It looks like DVI
Sweet: Then don't go with that
Riehl: It's a DMS-59 pin port.
Riehl: buuut..
Sweet: Its easier to just go for a different card
Riehl: there is an adapter
Riehl: i was trying to go for cheap.
Sweet: HD 5450 for example
Sweet: Not sure how good compatibility is
Sweet: But windows 10 does have drivers for it
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Sweet: Looks like less of a headache than that firepro would be haha
Sweet: Since this seemingly has Displayport/HDMI , DVI and VGA
Sweet: No adapters 😄
Sweet: And you'd be using consumer drivers not firepro drivers
Riehl: mm. but it's not a X1 slot. 😦
Riehl: @Henky!! whatcha doing for cooling solutions?
Riehl: nevermind - just scrolled up and saw what you're doing.
Riehl: 👍
Sweet: I hope it will work
Sweet: But those 200mm's have a ton of cooling power
Sweet: @Valerian Wait you meant something else than PCI instead of 1 slot occupying?
Sweet: Then i misunderstood
Sweet: Do you seek PCI or PCIe @Valerian ?
Sweet: Or wait i can see PCIe from the screenshot
Riehl: I'm cooling the K80 with a set up like this ..
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: But the triple fans will block my secondary PCIe 4 slot.
Riehl: I have a few PCI X1 slots near the bottom.
Sweet: PCI or PCie?
Sweet: Because for a retro PC i will soon be installing my Trio64 GPU
Sweet: And that PC is capable of windows 10
Sweet: So if it works on Windows 10 you'd be able to get that as a PCI card
Sweet: They are absolutely ancient cards though
Riehl: [Image attached]
Sweet: Doubt windows would have a driver for it even
Riehl: The very last one .. the X1 slot. mega small
Sweet: So the PCIe varient then
Riehl: yes
Sweet: I'm not far off with my 5450
Sweet: They do have one
Sweet: The question is would you be able to obtain one
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Riehl: 🤔
Sweet: Judging ebay the firepro + adapter is probably your best bet though
Riehl: I mean-
Sweet: Whats that cooler though @Valerian that looks sick
Riehl: not what I bought, lol
Riehl: [Image attached]
Sweet: Interesting but yours looks really cool
Riehl: i think the cool looking fans are lke $60 ...
Sweet: I like the LED's on it
Desberg: my question is how the air's gonna get past the plastic
Sweet: No fins?
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Desberg: there are fins but you gotta actually remove the casing
Riehl: I take hex-key to side screws; open the case, and peel the plastic shield off that covers the heat sinks.
Desberg: so the shield's on when not in use? gotcha
Riehl: er, i was just gonna leave the plastic off the top.
Sweet: In my case i just hope the front fan will be enough
Sweet: And i hope the card stays cool when not in use
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: that way, the heat sink's are exposed
Desberg: I see
Desberg: I made a 3D printed attachment that attaches to the screws on the front of the card, which funnels the intake from a fan attached to it
Sweet: Saw those on ebay as well
Sweet: Like fan to the side kind of deal
Riehl: kinda like a data center fan actually works
Desberg: yeah since I have a 3D printer I just made my own, but they're fairly easy to attach
Sweet: In my case there is a 200mm fan in the front of my case which would blow directly against the card when active
Sweet: So i am hoping the M40 stays cool enough when not in use to keep my passive build
Riehl: Henky is using a big-boy fan
Sweet: But then when i want to use it i can turn that fan on a high speed and then that should do hopefulyl 😄
Riehl: instead of tiny screamy jet engines
Sweet: Yup
Sweet: The case is also quite affordable
Sweet: At least if you consider $100 for a case affordable
Sweet: To me most good quality cases are around that price
Riehl: i am very likely going to have to come to or or Henky about setting up linux to run this thing if we can't find windows drivers that play nice with it
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Sweet: @Valerian I am going to have Linux on mine either way since i want to be fully on linux by 2026
Sweet: So already doal booting
Desberg: and that is why I don't like running my K80 lol
Riehl: this is the case I was *thinking* of putting it in..
Sweet: How hot does your K80 get idle when the fans not on?
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: opinions?
Desberg: dunno, the fan's got a molex connector so it's not like I can very easily control that
Desberg: they're pretty much just always on
Sweet: @Valerian Looks server rack enough that you might get away with just the front fans if its near that area
Sweet: @WAUthethird In my case i can use motherboard software to control the output power of the motherboard ports, so if i went for a setup like that i'd try to hook it up to those
Sweet: But if its on the PSU then rip speed control indeed
Desberg: yup, psu
Sweet: Yeah thats not fun
Sweet: Think my 200mm fan will work?
Desberg: how are you attaching it? or is it in a server box
Sweet: Its in my desktop PC
Sweet: The fan is on the front
Sweet: If you check the amazon link i posted you get the idea
Sweet: Those on full blast produce a lot of airflow
Desberg: seems like it'd be a bit challenging to get all that into the fins though
Desberg: unless you've got a fancy rack thing like @Valerian
Sweet: Its basically case wide airflow
Desberg: ah yeah, that's what I've got
Desberg: should be fine
Sweet: And i am hoping that like the server varients it goes into the side
Sweet: Not sure how they line up in the servers but i am assuming they are in a row and then air goes from the side
Sweet: Since blade servers typically have this large fan array of super tiny fans
Desberg: yeah, in one way and out the other so you've got one area of the server room that's a bit windy, and another area that's pretty warm
Sweet: Once was in one where the aircon failed
Desberg: ouch
Sweet: That was insanely warm in the entire room
Sweet: They had dying harddrives for months
Desberg: not surprised why didn't they make fixing that a priority?
Sweet: They did
Sweet: But you don't notice it until the next day
Sweet: They ended up taking the windows out so they could have the room cool down
Sweet: It was not safe for humans in there
Desberg: and by that time it was too late that's not fun
Sweet: Pretty sure it happened on the weekend as well
Sweet: And it wasn't the main server room either
Sweet: The company had 2
Sweet: So it was just this regular room with servers and an aircon
Desberg: the main one didn't fail, right
Sweet: Nope
Sweet: That one was much more proper haha
Sweet: But i remember trying to go inside it hours after they already were getting the air out for the backup check
Desberg: can't have been a cheap fix-up
Sweet: And i was not able to go in yet
Sweet: To warm
Sweet: I would not be surpriced if it ended up near 80 degrees celcious in there
Riehl: holy wow...
Desberg: hot damn
Sweet: Imagine how hot the inside of your computer gets if you had no cool air anymore
Sweet: Then have an entire room of them, and no more external air cooling or ventilation
Sweet: The fact that company took the windows out already says a lot haha
Desberg: sounds like a good reason to have backup a/c
Sweet: We made daily backups on tape which were in different rooms entirely and some outside the building
Sweet: And the other server room did not get hit
Sweet: So no data was lost but they had to replace almost all the drives over the course of a year
Desberg: sounds pricey
Sweet: For sure
Sweet: I remember them being very concerned about their raids
Riehl: how often do things burn out in situations like that?
Sweet: Burn out as in catch fire?
Sweet: Or just failure
Riehl: both.. ?
Riehl: Ehm..
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: @Henky!! these were the drivers that were suggested ...
Riehl: i dunno if those were the ones you looked at already or not
Sweet: Its one i am researching yes
Sweet: But i do see one annoyance with them
Sweet: Conda has no pytorch version compatible with it
Sweet: Pytorch's repository basically has 11.0 and 11.1
Sweet: So i am starting to doubt if using the official one is a good idea
Sweet: conda-forge seems to have 11.2
Sweet: So i am messing with kobold's install scripts a bit
Sweet: Or more specifically the finetuneanon.yml
Sweet: Otherwise 11.0 might be better for you and me, since we can grab a download for 11.0
Sweet: @Valerian From what i can tell 11.2 is good for now
Sweet: But i can't test anything until one of us has the card running and we can learn how strict it is on the requirements
Nevlin: Doesn't Colab have K80s
Sweet: They do yes
Sweet: We are talking windows drivers at the moment
Sweet: They have seperate drivers for the different cuda versions and i am wondering why thats the case
Sweet: The one version pytorch uses (11.1) is not provided
Sweet: 10.2 would work though
Carena: @Henky!! welcome to my world, of compilation hell
Riehl: @Henky!!
Riehl: would this help?
Sweet: Try the 11.2 first
Sweet: Because 10.2 will not work on KoboldAI before changing a dependency file
Sweet: If 11.2 works out of the box we don't need to mess with it
gold9: 11.2 works fine with M40 but the GPU is monolithic which mean the driver will interface with it as a single GPU. I don't know much about K80 but if I recall correctly it is dual GPU in a single board. does cuda library interface with them as single board or as two gpu ?
Sweet: I think two gpu's
Sweet: VE mentioned before he might look into adding multi gpu support
gold9: Nice!
Nevlin: I already did, I'm just waiting for Sionnach to finish setting up
Sweet: Oh neat, so thats going into united soon i assume?
Nevlin: I have it in a branch
Sweet: Nice 😄
gold9: Does the multiple GPU allowed using multiple VRAM as a single ?
Nevlin: It just does some computations on one GPU and the rest on another
Nevlin: you can have some of the model on one GPU's VRAM and the rest on the other
gold9: So I'll be limiited by the biggest VRAM in the system for model size ?
Nevlin: No, you are limited by the sum of the VRAM in all your graphics cards combined
Sweet: Is it like breakmodel or does it auto split?
Nevlin: I just have it set to do an even split right now
Nevlin: I'm trying to think of how to get the user interface to work with multiple GPUs and CPU
gold9: oh that neat!
Sweet: How about you give them the total, and ask per device how much blocks they want to commit to it with the remaining blocks also being shown in each prompt?
Sweet: And then auto commits the remaining ones to the last device
Sweet: That way in a single GPU setup you get the CPU question and nothing else
Sweet: But in a GPU setup you can choose how much per GPU
Sweet: Because if people add their old GPU's on to it they may have preferences
Nevlin: I think for the multiple GPUs it'd be less confusing to ask for how many layers for each GPU and then commit the rest to CPU memory
Nevlin: But that'd also require me to change the existing breakmodel thing to ask for how many layers to commit to GPU
Sweet: Thats a good idea
Sweet: I don't think that would be to big of an issue if we are clear about it
Sweet: But ideally we'd automatically detect it
Sweet: If we had a means of detecting the total size
Sweet: Then you could recommend the amount to commit
gold9: I mean there are limited amount of memory size out there 2,4,6,8,11,12,16,24 and they can be read by NVidia drive assuming that it gone be NVidia only solution. I didn't test AMD\ pytourch on linux yet
Carena: Don't forget I run 32Gb...
Carena: And it's a CPU/GPU shared memory
Carena: This however is something that is not yet fully understood by the pytorch devs...
Carena: The GPU only needs a pointer to the memory, not a full copy.
gold9: hahha I think Javier AGX special case. But most likly future systems from ARM and RISC V gone be share memory with just pointer. But now, most x86 system are limited with memory.
Carena: It's not a special case, I also seen GPU with 48Gb...
gold9: Talking about CPU/GPU based system
gold9: other than APU for ML
gold9: Though I would love V100, the price is going to be astronomical
gold9: or RTX 8000
Carena: A100, 80Gb VRAm
gold9: yeah and rtx8000 is 48. Is anyone here have A100 ?
Carena: Vast.ai? I think you won't need anything bigger than 24Gb VRAM to be honest at this moment
Carena: HFJ in half size is 12Gb, for training you need twice that...
Sweet: Imagine being able to tune a model in chunks
Sweet: Would be so nice
gold9: I think the reloading each chucks will take forever
Carena: Deepspeed?
Sweet: Probably
Sweet: Deepspeed is going to be something ill look in to when i have the m40
Carena: Deepspeed is only handy if you have multiple gpu
gold9: What is Deepspeed ?
Sweet: Can't it tune J on a single 3090?
Carena: 12Gb * 2... Doubtful.
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Carena: Freezes 25% of layers to fit
Sweet: So wouldn't produce good results?
Carena: As i said: doubtful
Carena: It might, but unsure at what cost
Carena: Ah, it uses finetuneanon's wonderful junk
Carena: I tried that, it won't work properly
Sweet: To be fair you did not try that with an m40 😛
Carena: 2x 3090, and it OOMed at 24Gb
Carena: Want to try my most devilish idea ever, and that is 6B-Ramsay
Sweet: As your first 6B?
Carena: Yup
Carena: At least I will know how well it performs
Carena: I know that if I do Shinen on 1.3B on my system, it takes around a month...
Carena: I do have a paid 2080Ti at my disposal but last times I tried that broke on deepspeed
Riehl: it is time
Riehl: for operation
Riehl: mutilate spare GPU.
Riehl: wish me luck, i shall post my results. I *won't* be testing it on any good mobos or anything of value - just a garbage rig kept in storage.
Riehl: oh and i sent the gpu that arrived in the mail back; that's money i could spend on something else.
Sweet: And thus #hardware became a horror channel haha
Sweet: Hopefully they survive it sio
Riehl: well the good news is nothing caught fire
Riehl: the GPU powered up, etc. but no post.
Riehl: wasn't expecting it to work - but i have a bunch of old junk parts.
Riehl: on the plus side - i've got a franken rig to test parts on now at least. 😅
Sweet: The M40 arrived 😄
Sweet: Now i will need to wait a couple of weeks for the PSU cable to show up
Nevlin: Wow that was fast
Sweet: Yeah its a week earlier
Sweet: Thats like a one week delivery for something from the US
Sweet: The cable will take much longer
gold9: They were fast when they shipped M40. I had to wait a week to get cables even though I ordered them before the card arrived
Sweet: I have no illusion in regards to the cable, i expect it in the second half of next month
Sweet: China shipping is always super slow
Sweet: If it takes to long i might just try and buy another one locally
gold9: They have direct aliexpress shipping that usually takes less time. But I was in verge to order it for a bit extra from Amazon to just be sure nothing wrong with M40
Sweet: I didn't go with the direct one for such a cheap component
gold9: They are free after certain amount. I was building server rack cable management and I got them with other stuff
Sweet: I didn't need anything else, so it would have been $13 shipping for a $4 part
Sweet: Looks like i am very lucky, randomly got a track and trace alert despite using the free shipping option. "The cable arrived in my country" (Not really but its in the neighboring country close to the border). So it will probably be here very soon :D
Ralf: What courier is it with?
Sweet: Their free global shipping
Sweet: My tracking app can't figure out the real traxking number of the couriers like it often can
Ralf: It should be with a local carrier rn, no?
Sweet: Yup
Ralf: Are you using 17Track?
Sweet: Nope, parcelsapp which is way better
Ralf: I used Parcelsapp a long time, but shipments from China were just not accurate for me.
Sweet: Interesting since i never found anything it did not accurately track
Sweet: Tried like 5 of them on a chinese package and only parcelsapp managed to get details
Carena: depends, if it's aliexpress it might
Sweet: But it also is reliable outside of china where 17track fails on anything thats not international
Sweet: For this specific package i only have cainiao tracking
Ralf: Not using Aliexpress.
Carena: Aliexpress also ships with Cainao
Ralf: 17Track isn't working for you then? I use it on all my local DHL and DPD shipments.
Carena: Aliexpress using 4 types: - EMS - Aliexpress (DHL & PostNL) - Cainao - China Post
Sweet: @Ralf Didn't work on PostNL
Sweet: For me no matter the type i always got cainiao tracking
Ralf: Oh I remember EMS
Ralf: Not gud
Sweet: This one is Cainiao Super Economy Global
Sweet: What was EMS like?
Ralf: Ass.
Ralf: Took a whole month to get my shipment to Germany. Ripped of my customs declaration papers in the process.
Ralf: German Customs or "Der gute Zoll" seized it and it took EMS another whole month to get back to me.
Sweet: For me the china post one is the trash one
Sweet: With dealextreme it typically took me 2 months to get anything
Ralf: I usually go with DPD now when getting something from China.
Ralf: Customs doesn't even care about it.
Sweet: Nice, these days PostNL has a system where on behalf of customs they deliver it to the post office and make you collect it there
Sweet: But the post office is trash so i am trying to avoid them as much as possible
Ralf: Yes, same in Germany with DHL and the Deutsche Post, but in general I pay customs in advance.
Carena: @Henky!! Note that if you have an app, you can pay customs in advance
Sweet: I don't have their app
Sweet: But it happened with a package i had no track and trace for
Sweet: With the M40 ebay handled all the customs stuff shipping and customs was a redicilous $100 though, they should not do that on second hand goods
Sweet: It was a third of the price of the card
Riehl: @Henky!! K80 is powered on, system is running ... trying to find drivers. :/
Riehl: getting 11.2
Riehl: @VE FORBRYDERNE I should be able to give you a screen shot of my GPU's soon. getting drivers set up.
Riehl: also getting fan controllers configured.
Riehl: hmm.. 11.2 may not with Keplar devices..
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Nevlin: colab somehow has both CUDA 10.2 and 11.2 installed for K80s
Nevlin: I think at least one of those two should work
Riehl: i tired to install KAI -- but finetune anons transformers failed to create a process.
Nevlin: I've seen that happen before when trying to use conda in a path that has spaces in it
Riehl: ah!
Riehl: lemme look at that.
Nevlin: if you're using the K drive option then this isn't the problem though
Riehl: i think that is the issue.. my user account has a space.
Riehl: lemme try the other option
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: ooof.
Riehl: i guess i have to use 11.2 then?
Riehl: also, weirdly enough ... no GPUs appearing in Task Manager...
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: though I know the devices are there.
Riehl: restarted with 11.2, installing KAI again
Nevlin: If you get the drivers installed correctly, you can run commandline.bat and type in this command to check how many GPUs PyTorch recognizes ``` python -c "print(__import__('torch').cuda.device_count())" ```
Riehl: can do!
Riehl: I also found this --
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: does that help you at all?
Nevlin: what am I looking at lol
Riehl: uh, I think registry entries for installed GPUS.
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: and that command showed this ...
Riehl: wait
Riehl: wrong cmd
Nevlin: if it prints nothing it means PyTorch didn't recognize your cuda drivers
Nevlin: I think
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: it said .. "2"
Nevlin: Your display GPU is from AMD right?
Riehl: correct.
Nevlin: Ok I'll just assume those two are your K80 cores
Riehl: so it sees both cores?
Nevlin: hold on
Nevlin: yeah I guess so
Riehl: want me to try to run a model?
Nevlin: sure
Riehl: kapow.
Riehl: i'm guessing the models also cannot have spaces in the command line either, huh?
Nevlin: I think they can
Riehl: not sure what borked up then
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: if that provides more details or not?
Riehl: wait..
Riehl: those aren't complete models. that's my fault.
Riehl: they didn't transfer over from my external hard drive completely; this motherboard has kinda borky USB ports on the front.
Riehl: transfering 6B over.
Nevlin: You should probably try to load a 2.7B model first
Riehl: yep -- trying a neo model first.
Riehl: 🤞
Riehl: and here we go~
Riehl: holy shit
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: I can run GPT neo without break model mode. It replies in like, a few seconds. Not instant..
Nevlin: Around 4-5 seconds?
Riehl: Yup!
Nevlin: I have a version of KoboldAI here you can use to try to load 6B https://github.com/VE-FORBRYDERNE/KoboldAI/tree/k80-test
Riehl: Temps --
Nevlin: Is that good?
Riehl: I think?
Nevlin: I know nothing about hardware
Riehl: I just looked up what is "hot" ... and it interwebs sais something like 65C ...
Riehl: i've got a manual fan controller set up just in case .. (and a fire extinguisher)
Riehl: i do have to get to bed. but i'm really excited.
Riehl: I downloaded your special version -- going to set it up in the morning.
Riehl: spent the evening building this thing. lol
Riehl: it looks like ... a train wreck; the proper case hasn't shown up yet.
Nevlin: That's what most stuff I build looks like
Nevlin: Anyway, good night!
Riehl: good night! talk to you tomorrow! thank you for help! I'm sure Henky will be excited, too!
Riehl: i guess I'm only using 12 VRAM right now? or is it using both? I'm not sure.. ?
Riehl: doesn't NEO require 16vram?
Nevlin: No only the official ones do
Nevlin: The finetuned ones need 8 GB
Nevlin: We halved the memory requirements
Riehl: I see!
Riehl: before, I had to use break model mode to even run horni-li at full tokens
Nevlin: Didn't you have an 8 GB card already?
Nevlin: I guess maybe it needs more at max tokens then
Riehl: I did!
Riehl: head to sleep! being poked.
Riehl: again, thank you!
Carena: Anything between 60 and 65 is good. Beyond 70 you might start experiencing issues, and beyond 85 your card will go throttle. It can go up to 130c, but then it's thermal paste will melt.
Riehl: thank you! testing K80 mode now!
Riehl: @VE FORBRYDERNE
Riehl: it appears to be working. both cores are operational - I'm running 6B Skein. Replies take a few moments to return
Riehl: [Image attached]
Carena: @Valerian you running on full GPU utilisation?
Riehl: I think so? there's a monitor in the upper left of the screen - both cores seem to be showing activity
Riehl: @mr_seeker
Carena: I mean like: Full GPU usage as in RAM 😉
Riehl: oh!
Riehl: let me see what the ram is doing..
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: I guess that's like 100% utilization?
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: it's weird -- the GPU does not show up like a normal GPU in the performance tab. There are literally only two options in the NVIDIA settings: "Dev Mode enable" and "GPU utilization"
Riehl: it doesn't give me any easy readouts of VRAM usage.
Carena: Check nvidia-smi
Riehl: Most of the information is very, very skant - with only a "Data center GPU detected" comment
Carena: nvcc and nvidia-smi can see much more than windows 😉
Riehl: [Image attached]
Carena: Okay, it seems it's split between 2 K80?
Carena: 6Gb + 6Gb 🙂
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: seems to be running at least pretty cool-
Carena: means multi-GPU works 😄
Riehl: yes!
Riehl: Hardware people! I have updated my Pinned message at the top to include cooling options - you can remove the cover from the GPU using hex keys and cool the GPU's heat sinks directly with traditional fans. 11.2 NVIDIA drivers for the Tesla K80 are confirmed good; unsure for M40 or other Tesla cards. As you get results, I'd be happy to add to the pinned messages for others who want to build their own home rig.
Carena: I would love to get a new rig for training purposes...
Sweet: @Valerian By default the K80 behaves as a compute card not a gpu
Sweet: Can be switched but this mode is going to be the best for kobold
Riehl: if I could learn how to do it - I would be happy to train stuff on my rig!
Riehl: multi-tasking and stuff. i might be capable of doing that now
Riehl: yeah .. i saw that. but it's kind of a debate on if it's even useful as a graphics card. some people swear by it, others say it's kinda garbage as a gaming card. I'm not really going to try at the moment. might be an interesting experiment later.
Riehl: on another note .. **all** my old stories are absolutely effing amazing now.
Riehl: at least a good few of them.
Riehl: 6B is incredible.
Carena: I tried it, but the 2.7B on 11Gb of RAM seemed to have caused OOM, so never followed up on it
Riehl: ah. so i can't use all 24 for training i guess
Sweet: @Valerian On skein i imagine?
Riehl: yep! was running Skein locally this morning.
Riehl: about to tinker with it a bit more.
Riehl: trying to get my Zotac drivers installed so I can have two monitor support.
Riehl: @Henky!! your M40 show up yet?? 🙂
Sweet: M40 yes, cable no
Liggitt: google coral products aren't compatible with anything kobold-ai related, are they?
Liggitt: [File URL attached]
Liggitt: seems like these are more geared towards picture, video and sound recognition 🤔
Nevlin: All you really need for running most neural networks is really fast matrix multiplication and lots of fast memory so technically it could be done, but these things don't look like they have enough memory
Nevlin: Also they use tensorflow and we use pytorch and jax
Liggitt: they're out of stock too 😫
Liggitt: i hate the chip shortage
Liggitt: 25 bucks wouldn't have been too much for a little coral device to experiment
Liggitt: *no stock*
Liggitt: but yeah with how much VRAM pytorch gobbles up, these things would definitely be out-of-spec
Desberg: I've got the USB coral accelerator
Desberg: works amazingly well
Carena: They might work with a bit of tinkering
Carena: One issue though: coral is an 8-bit system.
Sweet: So you need 8bit models?
Carena: Yup, looks like. Also restrictions in what can be used
Sweet: Finally landed up on my doorstep, when i got the time and energy this week ill be taking that tesla for a spin. I just really hope i can keep it cool otherwise ill need to figure out what the best fan setup is
Carena: Wondering if deepspeed can split up the Train model over multiple gpu's, and how to do that...
Sweet: Isn't that the purpose of GPTNeoX?
Carena: Might get my hands on cheap 2080Ti
Carena: Cluster of 4
Sweet: Not gonna join the M40 gang?
Carena: Rented
Sweet: Ah
Carena: If I go full M40, I need a new pc
Carena: And with that the hardware to finetune 20B
Carena: Chip shortage needs to end first
Sweet: For sure
Carena: AMD Threadripper Pro 64 core 3995WX 256gb 3200 ram 7x 3090 FEs. All running at pcie gen4 16x 2tb Sabbrent nvme 2x Corsair ax1600i 1x Corsair ax1200i 480mm EKWB XE Radiator 240mm EKWB XE Radiator 7x Noctua 3000rpm industrial fans dual D5 EKWB pumps Corsair 3090 waterblocks with heatsinks and fans on the backplates All EKWB fittings and tubing. 12/16 That is a rig for vast.ai
Sweet: Ran into an issue slotting my M40
Sweet: The plate on the back is not fit for my case, it seems nonstandard compared to some of the online pictures
Carena: Nonstandard?
Carena: Is it a server based one?
Sweet: Seems like it
Sweet: The screw is to high
Sweet: [Image attached]
Sweet: Yup thats a nogo
Sweet: @Valerian This will be good for you to include in the guide
Sweet: There are multiple backplates and models and if you get one like mine you can't use it in a desktop case at all
Sweet: The correct bracket seems to be called : PK3RJ
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Riehl: I think you can replace it?
Sweet: Yes, its with screws
Sweet: But people need to account for the fact they may need to buy this
Sweet: Its something you can really only tell from the picture in the listing
Sweet: Ill now need to wait another month before i have the bracket, otherwise i'd have ordered one haha
Lavinia: Time to break out the zip ties.
Sweet: I didn't wanna risk it with the slot
Sweet: But would have gone further if i was more certain about my cooling
Carena: [Image attached]
Carena: To give an idea on what phone you might need for AI-related tasks (higher is better)
Fowle: What kinda bracket does an M40 need to fit in a normal dual slot?
Sweet: PK3RJ
Sweet: Best way i can describe the look is that it has teeth at the bottom
Sweet: If its flat you got the server version
Fowle: Thanks
gold9: It fits perfectly on M40: https://www.aliexpress.com/item/4000505282893.html?spm=a2g0s.9042311.0.0.27424c4dSliEoa
Singband: I eventually need to try to get an Nvidia card. Or find out some new method to do without. One of the two.
Sweet: That one fits to, but the PK3RJ has the original mesh
Sweet: So the one i linked here is similarly priced and more original : https://www.ebay.com/itm/183756406633
Riehl: @Henky!! lemme know which parts work - maybe we can pin a M40 how-to
Riehl: or make an addendum
Sweet: The PK3RJ most likely applies to both the M40 and K80 so it could go in the universal guide. Its not on my card yet but ill know soon enough if it fits
Sweet: My M40 adventure may have come to an end
Sweet: Not sure if its going to work in my PC
Sweet: Getting insufficient system rsrcs
Sweet: @Valerian Any ideas?
Riehl: Insufficient system rsrcs?
Riehl: like what kind of errors are coming up / symptoms?
Riehl: hmm..
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Sweet: I managed to fix it
Sweet: I needed to disable CSM mode
Sweet: But its still not looking good
Riehl: how so?
Sweet: I am having multiple device conflicts
Sweet: I got the tesla working now
Sweet: But my network and usb controller are broken
Riehl: which ones are conflicting? hurray!
Sweet: So it may not have enough PCI lanes for all of them
Riehl: interesting.
Sweet: At least thats my theory
Sweet: My main windows doesn't start anymore
Riehl: the machine i built also starting have USB issues; front ports just stopped working flat out
Sweet: Windows To Go running from USB starts and it has the card
Sweet: But 2 of my other devices are down
Riehl: using windows 10?
Sweet: Yes, but a much newer one on the usb stick
Sweet: The card was getting warm since i can't use my cooler software
Sweet: So i just shut everything down
Riehl: Pfff...
Sweet: Once it had a while to cool off ill do one reinstall of windows
Sweet: So it can detect and install everything fresh
Sweet: If it works hurray!
Riehl: like ... I know the M40 is more advanced / newer than the K80
Sweet: If not, then this board is not capable
Sweet: I think its oversaturating my PCI
Riehl: what cards do you have installed besides the M40?
Sweet: Vega 64
Sweet: So i assume that one to uses quite a lot
Sweet: And both of them eat up to much
Riehl: i got myself a baby display controller
Sweet: If i had known this i would not have bought that $50 board, i'd just have updated my PC when the old one died
Sweet: Its also my gaming PC so i'd remove the M40 before installing a shitty GPU
Riehl: OH oh no
Riehl: see, i had spare parts given to me
Sweet: I'd need a spare PC to put it in to
Riehl: i literally had an old motherboard my brother gifted to me when he built a new mining machine
Sweet: And my spare PC is certainly not going to handle this
Riehl: Hm.
Riehl: lemme look up...
Sweet: So i am either going to shelve the M40 or sell it if i can't get this stable
Sweet: Because chances are on Ryzen 3000 or 5000 it would work
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Riehl: this is what he gave me
Sweet: Thats yours?
Sweet: Because mine should be beefier than that
Riehl: i put a little baby small slot GPU in the most bottom slot at the very bottom
Riehl: it's not used for anything else other than KoboldAI.
Riehl: literally dedicated to that entirely
Sweet: I think i know why its a gameover
Riehl: ?
Sweet: It may not support dual X16 cards
Sweet: But getting conflicting information on that
Riehl: i wouldn't want you to cook your gaming machine. :/
Sweet: Max PCI lanes is 20
Riehl: i also have a ryzen, too
Sweet: Which one?
Riehl: uh, off the top of my head, can't recall..
Riehl: I *think* a 5000 series?
Riehl: it doesn't have an integrated GPU - that's why i needed the small graphics card
Sweet: I am worried i am PCI lanes short basically
Sweet: Which would not make much sense
Sweet: Why support 2 PCIx16 cards on the board?
Riehl: if i remember correctly with the B450 .. if you put two cards into the PCIx16 slots, it reduces their speed by 1/2
Sweet: Mine is a x370 which is one generation older but a higher end chipset
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Riehl: interesting..
Sweet: It would indeed run it at 8x 8x
Sweet: But
Sweet: What i am worried about
Sweet: Is that it would make that a 16X and then i am short on the rest of the PCI devices
Sweet: But we'll see after i reinstall
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Riehl: i found this - haven't watched it -- but it *wince* talks about modifying the bios?
Sweet: Another aspect is that mine is the 24GB version
Riehl: oh
Sweet: Not wrecking another board haha
Sweet: The bios chip is soldered to the board
Sweet: And i already bought a new board this week because of a bad bios flash haha
Riehl: well we've confirmed the K80 *works*
Sweet: Well, not entirely
Riehl: perhaps you could sell the M40 and try a K80?
Sweet: We have not confirmed the K80 works
Sweet: Because the M40 works
Sweet: Its my other PCI devices that don't
Riehl: I'm running a K80. :/
Sweet: Yeah but you mentioned the front port issue
Sweet: So to confirm it works you need to check if all your devices in device manager are working correctly
Sweet: Because the M40 is usable
Sweet: Its the rest of the system that isn't
Riehl: i see-
Sweet: So i could theoretically rig my USB network adapter to the PC and use it
Sweet: It would most likely work
Sweet: But thats not a way for me to use my PC
Sweet: I'd still be down the usb controller i need for my external drive, and the good ethernet
Sweet: Currently installing windows back
Sweet: @Valerian Is yours working with all the PCI devices in your system?
Sweet: Or do you also have other devices not working?
Sweet: Like one of the usb controllers
Riehl: when i was building it - i was reading that the motherboard itself has some issues with USBs refusing to work if certain SSDs / PCI cards are installed - regardless of the GPU.
Riehl: it's kind of a silly board.
Riehl: There's two 'thumb stick' ssd ports on the mobo itself, but if you use one of them - it switches off the PCI card next to it -- unless you go into the bios and override it.
Riehl: The front USBs work (infrequently) -- my external hd would display. I started copying data off it - and suddenly the usb stopped working.
Riehl: the rear USBs function, as does the network card
Riehl: i have the secondary graphics card installed - but i have not installed dirvers for it for fear of it conflicting with the K80's drivers.
Riehl: supposedly I can install two different sets of graphics drivers -- but the options to do so don't seem available or windows 10 is kind silly about doing it -- like, it doesn't recognize the drivers when I try to manually select them for that device.
Riehl: I *can't* use two monitors - depsite haveing two display ports for some reason. i imagine because the drivers are running only the Tesla drivers.
Riehl: I also don't have sound on that machine.
Riehl: likely - again - a driver issue - as I imagine data center drivers aren't designed for any audio output because of their purposes
Riehl: in terms of temps -- it's been remarkably cool - and i haven't had any crashes yet.
Riehl: but also - the machine is simply built around the K80. I don't do any gaming or anything else on it besides run KoboldAI. :/
Sweet: Yeah
Sweet: I think i got my conclusion
Sweet: I can't support all the components in this build
Sweet: Its most likely the Vega 64 + M40 combination that eats up to many lanes
Sweet: Found out more information
Sweet: Its NOT the M40 that causes my issues
Sweet: The reason i only noticed it while i had the M40 in was because Above 4G support was never properly enabled for me
Sweet: Its why initially the M40 didn't initialize
Sweet: Its the above 4G support that breaks my network adapter and usb controller on its own
Sweet: That means that prior to buying one not only do you need to check if its present in the bios, but if everything on your system still works when its enabled. And you have to make sure CSM support is disabled when you test that.
Sweet: Its most likely an issue with the motherboard i have and not the M40
Sweet: Especially since its happening without the M40 slotted in my system
Sweet: And stops happening the moment i turn above 4g off
Riehl: Huh...
Sweet: Looks like a motherboard quirk sio
Riehl: *nodnods!*
Sweet: Which i wish i knew before i bought the same board again xD
Sweet: I bought it because it had Gen2 and Above 4G support
Sweet: But turns out the Above 4G support is only partial
Riehl: How can it only be "partial?" that's kinda weird
Sweet: Unless i can somehow solve it with drivers but i have not been able to solve it yet
Sweet: Like Above 4G support works
Sweet: But then my network adapter and one of the usb controllers does not
Riehl: but it emsses with other controllers.
Riehl: hm. bios update maybe?
Sweet: I can't
Sweet: Its the second highest bios and the newer one introduces stability issues
Sweet: This is the highest stable bios you can put on the board
Sweet: And i am not repeating the downgrade again haha
Sweet: I don't want to throw a second one in the trash xD
Sweet: Not that downgrading would work, because lower versions don't have the Gen2 support
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Riehl: Are the PCI slots configured for "Gen 2"?
Riehl: i'm looking through bios issues / bugs / etc
Sweet: They are, originally i forgot and it didn't boot at all
Sweet: For reference, i am running the beta NV bios
Sweet: Its the second newest bios
Sweet: The newest beta bios breaks legacy boot completely
Sweet: And i like to use legacy boot when testing stuff
Riehl: @Henky!! any luck? :/
Jacinta: Hi guys, anyone know why the k80 are so cheap right now?
Jacinta: If there even there's a reason
Carena: Because they are being dumped by miners?
Jacinta: Eh, fair enough, because of ETH2.0 incoming?
Carena: Could be.
Sweet: K80's (and to some extend M40's) are a dead end in terms of support so datacenters don't want them. And performance wise they are weaker than a 1080 so miners don't want them. They are stupidly difficult to use at home and have no video outputs so gamers don't want them. Which leaves us.
Jacinta: Makes tons of sense, thank you
Carena: [File URL attached]
Sweet: Isn't that one that you have?
Carena: Nope, I have the Xavier
Sweet: Would it be any good for us / affordable?
Carena: It depends
Carena: Xavier was pricey
Carena: It's ampere technology, but I had difficulty getting the 2.7B to train already
Sweet: Looks like AMD users just got a lot harder time getting it to work
Sweet: And as a result i am out of GPU testing capabilities since i now don't have a working M40 and i also no longer have a working GPU at all
Sweet: I am almost certain its the 4.5 ROCm update that broke compatibility
Sweet: But naturally AMD is terrible so they did not update the other dependencies
Sweet: On the bright side they may have finally added RDNA support
Sweet: So when the dependency hell can be resolved more people might be able to attempt to run it
Fowle: @Henky!! How could I try to run Kobold locally on my machine?
Sweet: Which hardware do you have?
Fowle: Since GPU is a bust
Sweet: If your going for the CPU route, how much ram do you have?
Fowle: I have 40GB
Sweet: Lol, alright xD
Sweet: In that case if you are fine with longer generation times you can run the CPU version
Sweet: In your case the development version will probably work the best
Fowle: does the CPU matter?
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Sweet: It matters in how slow it will be
Sweet: But it will be able to run it
Fowle: 2600
Sweet: My 1700X handles it fine
Fowle: 3.8ghz boost
Sweet: Mine is 3,9Ghz 16 threads
Fowle: 6 cores 12 threads
Sweet: Yours might take a little longer but should be relatively close
Sweet: Expect to wait a minute
Fowle: ok thanks
Sweet: Longer once the stories go further
Sweet: So if you want to use it for slower more casual play with your ram it will work solid with the 2.7B's
Fowle: ok
Sweet: 6B expect a multi minute wait
Sweet: You can still do it since you got enough ram
Sweet: You will need the HFJ models though, the HF don't work CPU only
Fowle: Does ram speed matter
Sweet: Nah
Sweet: Just ram size
Fowle: ok
Fowle: Thank you henky for your help
Sweet: No problem 😄
Fowle: @Henky!! One more thing, which script do I execute?
Sweet: install_requirements.bat as admin
Sweet: Then later play.bat
Fowle: I have linux
Sweet: Oh
Sweet: In that case you will either need to set everything up manually or use docker
Sweet: I recommend play-cuda.sh
Sweet: With docker and docker-compose installed it should get you going
Fowle: What if I have an AMD GPU
Sweet: Which one?
Fowle: 5500xt
Sweet: Don't do anything
Sweet: Don't even attempt it
Sweet: I tried it today and AMD broke their stuff
Fowle: oof
Sweet: if you try it now the chance of it working is 0
Sweet: The chance to get it to work later would be low to
Sweet: And your GPU was never supported
Fowle: So nothing has changed, oof
Sweet: However, with a bit of luck it might be in 4.5
Sweet: So its worth trying once its working again on my supported GPU
Fowle: So forget CPU play then?
Sweet: With play-cuda.sh
Fowle: ok
Sweet: Just forget about the AMD side for now haha
Sweet: You can still install docker and use the docker for nvidia
Sweet: Although that might not support CPU play well
Sweet: Let me look
Sweet: Doesn't support CPU play properly
Sweet: Can be easily changed to support CPU play instead though
Sweet: You will have to make a tiny modification to it
Fowle: What is the mod?
Sweet: In play-cuda.sh it copies the finetune.yml file
Sweet: That one only supports GPU usage
Sweet: You will want to change that to the huggingface.yml file
Sweet: So it downloads that one instead
Fowle: what about env.yml?
Sweet: That is where it copies it to
Fowle: Ah ok
Sweet: You may need to modify more
Sweet: But we will see if it works
Fowle: > ./play-cuda.sh: 4: docker-compose: not found
Sweet: You need docker and docker-compose installed
Sweet: Getting docker working is your own responsibility with your distro haha
Sweet: Docker has good guides for pretty much all distro's
Sweet: Which one do you have?
Fowle: popos
Sweet: So ubuntu
Fowle: basically
Sweet: Which one? 20.04 or 21?
Fowle: Pop!_OS 20.04 LTS
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Sweet: Thats how to get the proper docker engine
Sweet: Once you have that docker-compose should be apt-get installable
Sweet: But in summary since they list so many instructions
Sweet: ``` sudo apt-get update sudo apt-get install \ ca-certificates \ curl \ gnupg \ lsb-release```
Sweet: ```curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg```
Sweet: ``` echo \ "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \ $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null```
Sweet: ``` sudo apt-get update sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io```
Sweet: Those ones from their manual are the relevant ones
Sweet: Once you have all that it should be something like ```sudo apt-get install docker-compose```
Fowle: > ERROR: The Compose file './docker-compose.yml' is invalid because: > services.koboldai.deploy.rsrcs.reservations value Additional properties are not allowed ('devices' was unexpected) > Unsupported config option for services.koboldai: 'group_add'
Sweet: I wonder if you ended up getting a old version
Sweet: Alright try this ```apt remove docker-compose```
Sweet: To get rid of it again
Fowle: ok
Fowle: removed
Sweet: docker-compose giving the not found error again?
Fowle: ./play-cuda.sh: 4: docker-compose: not found
Fowle: yep
Fowle: Now what
Fowle: Trying again
Fowle: But if I install it again the other error occurs
Sweet: pip3 install docker-compose
Sweet: So you have the new one
Sweet: It has to be uninstalled though
Sweet: It is 3am for me so i am not the most responsive atm xD
Fowle: oof sorry
Sweet: They think its a good idea to do construction at night
Sweet: So ill be kept up until they finally stop
Fowle: > Requirement already satisfied: docker-compose in /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages (1.25.0)
Sweet: Did you uninstall it when you tried it again?
Fowle: Ok now it's installing thanks
Fowle: Error just now > ERROR: Service 'koboldai' failed to build : The command '/bin/bash -c apt update && apt install xorg -y' returned a non-zero code: 100
Sweet: Don't know
Sweet: I have not touched this on ubuntu in months
Sweet: Neither do i normally use the cuda version, someone else made that one
Sweet: Try something like
Sweet: systemctl status docker
Sweet: To see if its even running
Sweet: You must also be a member of the docker group otherwise you will need to run the file with sudo
Fowle: running
Sweet: Try running it with sudo then
Sweet: Maybe that will make it start
Fowle: Full error message > rexommendation@pop-os:~/KoboldAI-united$ sudo ./play-cuda.sh > non-network local connections being added to access control list > Building koboldai > Step 1/5 : FROM mambaorg/micromamba > ---> 71c065a6981f > Step 2/5 : WORKDIR /content/ > ---> Using Cache > ---> c24add7fe95d > Step 3/5 : COPY env.yml /home/micromamba/env.yml > ---> Using Cache > ---> b0fd3c767a63 > Step 4/5 : RUN apt update && apt install xorg -y > ---> Running in 2f4ea236e366 > > WARNING: apt does not have a stable CLI interface. Use with caution in scripts. > > Reading package lists... > E: List directory /var/lib/apt/lists/partial is missing. - Acquire (13: Permission denied) > ERROR: Service 'koboldai' failed to build : The command '/bin/bash -c apt update && apt install xorg -y' returned a non-zero code: 100
Sweet: Ill see if i get the same on manjaro
Fowle: Ok let me know how that goes, I'll just use colab for now. Thanks for your support.
Sweet: Getting the same thing here so something broke that docker environment
Fowle: I guess I will just stick to the colab for now
Sweet: I do have a fix for that, but currently having merge conflicts and i am not used to github's way of dealing with merging it all back
Sweet: I don't want to create a branch on the main one
Sweet: I just want it to apply the changes to ours
Nevlin: If you have a local git client you can resolve merge conflicts that way
Sweet: I got github.com and the github desktop client
Sweet: The merge itself is obvious, its your version bump it doesn't like
Sweet: But i don't want to clutter the real one
Nevlin: You are trying to merge the official branch into united, right?
Sweet: Yup
Sweet: I fixed the cuda docker
Sweet: So i need to merge it with your united changes intact, without those landing in a public branch
Nevlin: ok let me do it
Sweet: And i assume your dynamic world info merge was safe
Sweet: I didn't get a good chance to test it, but if others here have i can allow that one to
Sweet: Merged the dynamic world scan first
Nevlin: opened a pull request
Sweet: Was that effectively you cloning main on your end and then pushing it back into mine?
Nevlin: I did a `git checkout` to united, then `git merge`d the main branch into it, then manually fixed the merge conflicts in Visual Studio Code
Sweet: @ReXommendation If you get the latest version you will have that file fixed its failing on
Fowle: Ok thanks
Sweet: It will still fail since you don't have an nvidia gpu
Sweet: In the docker-cuda/docker-compose.yml file
Sweet: Remove anything starting at devices: and lower
Sweet: You only need the first half of the file
Sweet: That will stop it from trying to look for a GPU that does not exist
Sweet: Then you should have a CPU version instead of a cuda version
Sweet: And don't forget to mod that first file to get the huggingface again if your updating all the files
Fowle: Now do I just wait? > rexommendation@pop-os:~/KoboldAI-united$ sudo ./play-cuda.sh > non-network local connections being added to access control list > Building koboldai > Step 1/6 : FROM mambaorg/micromamba > ---> 71c065a6981f > Step 2/6 : WORKDIR /content/ > ---> Using Cache > ---> c24add7fe95d > Step 3/6 : COPY env.yml /home/micromamba/env.yml > ---> Using Cache > ---> b0fd3c767a63 > Step 4/6 : RUN micromamba install -y -n base -f /home/micromamba/env.yml > ---> Running in 5de05ffaeb4f > > __ > __ ______ ___ ____ _____ ___ / /_ ____ _ > / / / / __ `__ \/ __ `/ __ `__ \/ __ \/ __ `/ > / /_/ / / / / / / /_/ / / / / / / /_/ / /_/ / > / .___/_/ /_/ /_/\__,_/_/ /_/ /_/_.___/\__,_/ > /_/
Sweet: Yup
Sweet: The display doesn't really work well but let it sit
Fowle: Looks fine but copy and paste makes it look bad
Sweet: In my case most of the install process got cut out from view by docker
Sweet: But it downloaded a mini version of ubuntu inside the docker with the tools we use on windows to deploy all the dependencies
Sweet: Right now its downloading all the python dependencies and setting it up for you
Sweet: And then lastly it adds X11 to the docker so it can show you the file open dialogs
Fowle: Ah ok
Sweet: After that it will attempt to launch it
Sweet: If you modified all the files correctly you get the main menu
Fowle: How long with it take to download and install
Sweet: Depends on your internet
Sweet: Its around 10GB on windows
Sweet: KoboldAI needs a LOT of dependencies haha
Sweet: But this cuda docker is really nice
Sweet: It uses the distribution tools i use for the windows side of things to
Sweet: Its the AMD side that is annoying
Sweet: They limit it to python 3.6
Fowle: It seems frozen
Sweet: Like i said, the display of it is bad
Sweet: But its still going
Fowle: ok
Sweet: You can check how much CPU its using if your unsure
Sweet: It should be hogging your CPU pretty decently
Fowle: Lol I can hear its fan
Fowle: So in this version can I use softprompting?
Sweet: Yup
Fowle: Yee
Sweet: The henk717 / united version has that feature
Fowle: Still frozen
Sweet: Whats your CPU usage?
Fowle: bouncing 22-27
Sweet: Which process?
Fowle: total
Sweet: Yeah but which process is causing it?
Fowle: track-extract is 8 percent
Sweet: I don't recall that one
Sweet: Did it do a whole lot of lines that say linking?
Sweet: Like what is your terminal saying?
Fowle: lots of Finished blas (00m:00s) 1 KB 5 B/s Finished pyasn1 (00m:00s) 53 KB 226 B/s Finished tenso
Fowle: unmoving
Fowle: do I terminate it and retry?
Sweet: The moving part of that one is out of sight
Sweet: Its most likely still downloading
Nevlin: The last one usually takes a really long time
Sweet: If you terminate and retry on Linux it will automatically delete all your progress and you have to do it all again
Sweet: Its safe to do so, it just means all your progress is lost
Fowle: It's still going
Fowle: I'm just waiting
Fowle: Oh wait micromamba is taking 2%
Sweet: 2% and probably all your bandwith haha
Fowle: lol
Fowle: 60 megabits lol
Fowle: Linking
Fowle: How long does it take for transformers to install?
Fowle: or flask
Nevlin: Did it finish downloading everything yet
Nevlin: It took my computer like 30 minutes to install
Fowle: > Successfully installed filelock-3.3.2 flask-cloudflared-0.0.5 huggingface-hub-0.1.2 joblib-1.1.0 packaging-21.2 pyparsing-2.4.7 pyyaml-6.0 regex-2021.11.10 sacremoses-0.0.46 tokenizers-0.10.3 tqdm-4.62.3 transformers-4.12.0.dev0 It's just waiting
Nevlin: Well I've never installed via Docker before
Nevlin: Can you leave it on for like 15 more minutes just to see what happens
Fowle: Sure
Sweet: Once it begins linking its in the final phase, depends a lot on your storage speed
Fowle: It's doing nothing now
Sweet: pytorch takes a while to link
Sweet: If it fails you exit back to the terminal
Fowle: I'm past the linking
Sweet: Got an error?
Fowle: nope > Transaction finished
Sweet: Whats most likely happening is that it finished creating the image and is packing it up
Fowle: also accidentally pressed ctrl+c
Sweet: Hopefully its not cancelling it then
Fowle: trying to copy paste
Fowle: it did
Fowle: rerunning
Sweet: Hopefully it at least completed mamba
Sweet: Otherwise you have to do all that again xD
Sweet: Either way i am going to call it a night, just be patient i am sure you will get far since i know the installation process should succeed at least beyond the steps that take long
Fowle: Memory usage is getting kinda high
Fowle: Cache
Sweet: From the updates or from the program itself?
Fowle: Just Cache is
Sweet: Cache is supposed to be high
Sweet: If Cache is high thats a good thing
Fowle: ok
Sweet: It means files it has in memory for faster access
Sweet: Linux free's it up if you need actual ram
Fowle: ok gn
Sweet: This is what mine shows like
Sweet: [Image attached]
Fowle: interesting
Jacinta: Found out that I can make an hacky modification to my server to allow beefy GPU support but I have to remove the motherboard to do it D:
Jacinta: Does a k80 heat much by the way? They are fanless right?
Carena: They need to be cooled
Jacinta: Idea discarded then, the PCIs are outside the fan shroud. The official GPU kit adds 4 fan as well but apparently it can't be installed, you either have it already or you don't.
Sweet: Got good news for AMD users, i got my system back up and running
Sweet: Not with docker though, i am still uncertain what is going wrong on that part
Sweet: If you want to run KoboldAI on AMD i recommend installing it manually with the requirements.txt that is bundled
Sweet: Then, go to the pytorch website, find the pip install command for the rocm torch. And install this version on top. Replaces the regular pytorch with the rocm version. Then if you manage to resolve the other distro specific dependency hell (For me all i needed to do was install tk as a package) it will work.
Sweet: Meanwhile in my M40 saga, i got my USB network adapter yesterday and it has been working wonderfully! Its a USB hub + network adapter in one so i can now afford to loose both my network card and the 2 USB ports i loose when i enable the Above 4G crypto
Tmas: Here's an excel report on all the GPU options geared toward kobold ai models/maybe gaming with my recommendations. Feel free to suggest changes.
Sweet: @Tmas 3060's also have 12GB of vram, and for people who want to go for a cheap rig it together and pray that it works solution you could go with K80's or M40's
Fretwell: i checked the price for a k80 its around 3-5k euros
Fretwell: i might have looked at the wrong thing i think
Fretwell: the one i saw was an nvidia quadro tesla80
Carena: New, yes...
Fretwell: isn't it a bad idea to buy already used gpu's? You don't know how much they will last.
Tmas: I missed that. I'll revise my report.
Tmas: Depends. Server grade GPUs most likely were heavily used, put in storage for x amount of time, then perhaps sold second hand. Consumer cards are pretty safe in my experience with buying them.
Fretwell: would a k80 fall under Server grade or Consumer Grade?
Sweet: Server grade
Sweet: So no fan, needs mods to be cool enough and a good motherboard that can handle it
Tmas: Correct
Fretwell: idk if my motherboard can use it
Fretwell: i don't even think i can add more ram to it
Tmas: Should be a standard x16 lane
Tmas: Ram or a GPU?
Fretwell: from what i read the max ram my motherboard can use in 16 ram
Sweet: These K80's and M40's you need Above 4G decoding support
Sweet: And PCI Gen2
Fretwell: baseboard is the motherboard right?
Sweet: Would be yes
Fretwell: for some reason i can't find my motherboard online, there is the normal one but mine is a cf one
Fretwell: the gen2 is PCI express 2.0?
Sweet: I don't think so
Sweet: Because mine is PCI Express 3.0 and its a seperate option in the bios
Fretwell: i found the specs for mine
Sweet: Which board is it?
Fretwell: [Image attached]
Fretwell: i also ordered a new hdd so i don't overstress my ssd
Sweet: @Tmas RX6900's are flatout a bad recommendation in your list. They don't support any acceleration at all. ROCm is not supported on those either.
Tmas: Noted. Wasn't sure about AMD cards so I tried to give them the benefit of the doubt.
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Sweet: For consumer cards only the Vega's can run with 8GB but its not really worth the hassle of having people use Linux
Sweet: I don't think we should recommend people to buy AMD until they improve ROCm support
Riehl: [File URL attached]
Riehl: $195
Yup: >Ready for resale
Yup: [Image attached]
Riehl: they absolutely need to be cooled. There are a variety of ways to cool it-- 1. You can purchase a 3d-printed mount for the back and mount a blower 2. You can unscrew the hex-screws on the top of the card and remove the case - allowing you to either use a large fan (Like Henky does) or you can use an independant 2-3 fan "card" which sits right next to the K80 and blows air directly onto it. Some folks even use thermal metal 'tape' to press the fans directly to the heat sinks - though I'm not sure that's a good idea.
Riehl: I'm using a used K80 that I bought for $150. The K80 is an out-dated mining card which isn't useful for bitcoin mining at this point. There are warehouses full of the things.
Riehl: I mean, it's a risk? But i've built several machines for half the price of new parts. It's a gamble. :/
Yup: Still, that's more on the "used" side than "unused"
Riehl: Brand New, you're looking at 300-400 dollars, ... typically from China,
Yup: anyway my location is so remote that in here the mining farm sold is, as I just checked that ad, made of 6 x 1070
Riehl: ngl, ... they're *probably* used. But in good-looking shape.
Yup: "Need money urgently"
Yup: No point to even joke anymore
Riehl: oof
Yup: Server-usage could have less used cards, but those are less resold and more used till death
Yup: Somewhat funny that my quite obsolete 750Ti *still* has more CUDA cores than the recently purchased 940MX (on a laptop)
Yup: they're on the same screen
Yup: (on that note, what the hell is "GRID"? apparently something about virtual desktops from 2015 and so on)
Sweet: GRID is what you use to power virtual machines in case you want to make your own geforce now or need it for VDI. Because Nvidia is scummy they need that expensive card on top of a license which i think is a montly paid one. Makes it completely out of budget for most smaller businesses.
Fretwell: i got my new hdd but the pc doesn't detect it
Riehl: is it an SSD?
Fretwell: a 2T hdd
Fretwell: ssd 's don't have a long lifespan as an hdd
Fretwell: atm i have the new hdd inside the computer case while the old one i have it on an external docking station
Sweet: Right click on the startmenu and choose the disk management, if its detectef you will get a popup to initialize it (I recommend GPT due to its size). Then you can create a partition there. HDD's have no drive letters by default.
Sweet: SSD's these days have a longer lifespan
Fretwell: this is everything in the disk managment
Sweet: Hows the part look on the bottom?
Fretwell: only these 2 appear
Sweet: No not that haha
Sweet: In disk management on the bottom
Sweet: It should show the disks
Fretwell: [Image attached]
Sweet: Not a third one?
Fretwell: nope
Sweet: Then its not detected on a hardware level
Sweet: Got it connected to the motherboard and power?
Fretwell: used same wire as for the old one
Fretwell: atm the old one is connected on a docking rack on the pc
Sweet: What if you put the new one on that?
Fretwell: is already in
Sweet: The docking rack or in the PC?
Fretwell: in the pc
Sweet: The PC is not seeing it though
Sweet: The tricky part is even if it does see it you won't get a drive letter
Fretwell: do i need to manually install the drive for the hdd?
Sweet: You need to keep checking in disk management
Sweet: And then make a partition once it shows up
Fretwell: i just plugged the hard disk in after i unpacked it
Tmas: Revised list based on @Henky!!'s suggestion.
Sweet: Don't have the time and energy to really revise it further, but i made some quick changes. AMD RX is a terrible recommendation and should only ever be done if people have them since its not officially supported at all and in terms of the higher RX's they are not supported in general. Vega's if people want to use Linux and are super cheap or if they already have them could be used but i didn't add them. I did add my M40 to the mix since its better than a K80 but shares its issues.
Riehl: Is your harddrive formated for Legacy Bios or UEFI bios? ... Also -- the life of an SSD is largely based on the maker of the ssd drive.
Riehl: [Image attached]
Riehl: If your BIOS is set to Legacy boot -- (and likely the OS is installed in Legacy mode ... which is bad news in itself) ... the SSD won't be recognized.
Fretwell: it's an hdd
Fretwell: from stargate
Fretwell: i didn't format it or anything
Fretwell: just unpacked it and plugged it in the pc
Riehl: But nothing is showing up, huh.
Riehl: well - if you have another computer available, you can try connecting it and seeing if that computer reads it. If it does, the hdd is at least good and it's something going on with communicating with the computer you're putting it in.
Fretwell: i did connect a verry old hard disk from 2017 and it detected it
Fretwell: is there a limit to hard disk size from the motherboard?
Sweet: Limits from the motherboard should not be a thing if you format it in the GPT layout. UEFI motherboards can just handle it, and if you got something ancient like my retro PC windows would.
Fretwell: i didn't format the hdd
Fretwell: oh and also seems nvidia released a new gpu, an rtx 2060 with 12 gb of ram
Fretwell: and it's almost the same price as a 3060
Sweet: So its no use haha
Sweet: People might as well buy the 3060
Fretwell: for runing an ai it's better to buy the 2060 12gb ram because it has more vram
Sweet: 3060 also has 12
Sweet: The Ti has 8 because logic but the regular has 12
Fretwell: isn't the Ti supposed to be better?
Sweet: The 3000 range is completely illogical
Sweet: The 3060 has 12gb of vram
Sweet: 3070 has 8
Sweet: 3060Ti has 8
Fretwell: that makes no sense
Fretwell: a higher model having less vram
Fretwell: and quite a lot less aswell
Sweet: 3080 has 10
Sweet: 3080ti has 12
Sweet: I think its because of the shortages
Fretwell: 3070 is almost twice the price of a 3060
Sweet: 3060 is probably a gimped version of something better that was to broken to be that
Fretwell: whi would you buy a 3070? its only 58% better
Fretwell: if its twice the price just buy 2 3060, you get way more vram that way
Sweet: For most people speed is more important than VRAm
Fretwell: the 3090 seems to have 24 gb of vram aparently
Sweet: Yup, that one is the best consumer GPU for us but its very expensive
Fretwell: i think if i were to chose betwen a new tesla k80 or an nvidia 3090 i would go with the 3090, it is much cheaper than a new tesla k80
Fretwell: i think the 3090 is faster than a tesla k80
Fretwell: yes is waay faster the bandwith is more than 3x faster
Fretwell: also the base clock speed is much faster
Sweet: 3090 beats the K80 in everything
Sweet: Unless the K80 is significantly cheaper the 3090 is the way to go
Fretwell: the k80 has much higher proces size
Sweet: Which is bad
Fretwell: rtx 3090 has 8 proces size while k80 has 28
Fretwell: the 3090 has gddr6x memory while the k80 has gddr5
Fretwell: also the 3090 supports a way never version of cuda
Fretwell: the left one is the 3090 and the right one is the k80
Masry: The last time i checked the k80 was way cheaper. 400 dollars for a new k80 vs 2000 for a new 3090
Lavinia: I'm sad the 3090ti is still 24gb. Was hoping for 48. Maybe even 32. Ram is faster so go gaming performance...
Lavinia: I played Icarus the other night and cranked up the textures and the texture pool to max. Managed to use 20gb of VRAM.
Carlock: If someone could share their experience running let say 2.7b AID on a 3060 12gb I would apparaciate their toughts on how it is. What's the response time is like, etc. Thanks!
Sweet: I got a weaker GPU than that and mine you can expect around 2-10 second response times
Sweet: Your going to have a very good experience with 2.7B's
Carlock: Ohh I just asking because a german site supposedly has it in stock, no idea if they actually ship it but I'm getting tempted. Thanks!
Fretwell: finally it detects it
Riehl: what was the issue?
Fretwell: i didn't defragment the hdd
Fretwell: had to put it in a docking station and detect it from disk management
Sweet: Format / partition you mean
Sweet: But thats why i adviced disk management as the check if it was connected properly
Carlock: Ok, so anyone who is interested in upgrade their GPU's in this dark times I got a 3060 12GB in a Ryzen 3600 + 32 GB (kinda meh, kinda slow RAM) system. I'm playing with the model that has the folder name of: "gpt-neo-2.7B-aid", I think it's linked in Kobold AI's wiki. I'm not able to run this purely on GPU, however I'm able to load it in CPU+CPU mode with 0 layers allocated to system ram. With this setup it takes around 6 seconds to generate a response which is kind of crazy.
Fretwell: for me takes 12 seconds to generate on 2.7B
Carena: 12Gb should be enough to run a 2.7B model, unsure why you can't load a full model in there, unless you use Windows...
Sweet: Even on windows it should have fit
Sweet: Unless he uses the official transformers on 0.16 then it would be very inefficient and a tight fit
Carlock: Ohh yeah, I didn't reinstall and I was using the official transofmers, resintalled now and that's lowered the response time to 4 seconds! Thanks!
Sweet: If you switch to our development version http://github.com/henk717/koboldai and the official transformers that one installs you get an even better version of KoboldAI 😄
Sweet: Its nearing the end of its development cycle
Emelda: Perhaps a bit too hypothetical, but it would be nice if we could get a version of KoboldAI to run on Maker/Hacker SBCs, like the Jetson Nano: https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetson-nano-developer-kit
Sweet: That specific one they show is to weak
Sweet: 4GB of shared memory won't get you enough to run any good model
Sweet: Your regular PC will be more suitable
Emelda: That would be the "too hypothetical" part.
Sweet: And for context, KoboldAI runs on anything that has the python dependencies we need. KoboldAI itself can't be ported to anything since it does not need to be as its platform agnostic, people would need to port the required dependencies.
Sweet: So if people had a version of pytorch and transformers for that specific platform chances are KoboldAI will work on it
Emelda: I know platforms like that have Python, I don't know about specific things like pytorch, though.
Mirelle: Go look at the Tesla M40. They come in a 12 and a 24 model and can be had for 150-275. Their compute is old so slower than a 3090, but faster than a K80 (and you don't have to worry about the dual GPU and memory partitioning of a K40). I've got one and can run GPT-J-6B at max everything and still have a TINY amount of vram left 🙂
Sweet: I got one to, but not yet hooked up
Sweet: Cooler for it will arrive somewhere next month
Sweet: Its been a bit of a painful journey though xD
Mirelle: I getto'ed it with duct tape (the silver reflecting kind) to make a shroud. I'm using it with a GPU miner external connect so it's not too bad to be geto there
Sweet: In my case i bought one and tried it out
Sweet: Then i no longer had working internet and lost a USB controller
Sweet: Now i got a substitute with a really good USB hub with built in ethernet that has been shockingly good
Sweet: But the cooling will also be tricky
Sweet: So the one i ordered is a kit
Sweet: Its a 3D printed mount
Sweet: And on top of that is a server fan
Mirelle: [Image attached]
Sweet: Thats so ghetto xD
Sweet: But will be quieter than mine
Sweet: Is that even inside your case?
Mirelle: Nope. Sitting on a shelf in my rack. Using one of the miner 1x riser cards with a USB A-A cable long enough to go out the back of the server case and up to the shelf.
Mirelle: Super dusty in the garage, but racks are loud, so banned from the house it is.
Sweet: Yeah i'm also worried for how loud my PC will become once i have it in
Sweet: I have such a silent PC right now
Sweet: I just hope the card won't overheat if i don't cool it and don't use it
Fretwell: how loud can it get?
Sweet: 60DB
Sweet: Which is why i am trying to go for a fan i can control with my motherboard
Fretwell: mine become a bit loud when it the ussage goes up a bit
Sweet: Since i would not want a permanent 60db in my room
Sweet: Your card has no server fans right?
Fretwell: i do hear a small grinding sound idk if it's the cpu or gpu
Sweet: Because we are talking this kind of loud : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgXcYp6rn_0
Fretwell: my card has 2 fans on it which came with the gpu
Sweet: GPU fans have nothing on server fans xD
Sweet: My GPU can get loud to, but not this loud
Fretwell: are the server fans any good?
Mirelle: That setup is quite quiet if I turn the fan speed down. When it's generating it's no louder than what I'd expect from a CPU fan.
Sweet: They are way faster than desktop fans and much smaller
Mirelle: The rack though, I've got an infiniband switch, and it is super loud and high pitched
Fretwell: wait can i control the fan speed using the nvidia control panel?
Mirelle: Server fans prioritize air movement over everything, so they are loud and high pitched
Sweet: Possibly, otherwise afterburner can probably do it
Sweet: That and a small size
Mirelle: I hooked mine up to a spare fan controller port on my motherboard, then used some software (don't recall what) to tie that to the gpu temp
Fretwell: i don't think i have issues with cooling my gpu never goes 80 degrees
Sweet: They also had a blower fan version which looked neater, but that one had a molex connector
Sweet: And i refuse to have the blower fan be as loud as my retro PC
Sweet: My retro PC also has a blower fan at 100% at all times
Mirelle: Ya, a blower would probably work well, but would be louder
Fretwell: what about water cooling?
Sweet: And its fine when i want to use my retro PC, but its not fine to have that on permanently in the room every day
Sweet: I don't do water cooling
Sweet: Never liked the idea of having water in my PC and its also less quiet than my current setup
Mirelle: I've done lots of water cooling (current daily is GPU water cooled), but water blocking an M40 would be difficult
Sweet: But i'm basically hoping the card will stay cool at idle with minimal airflow
Sweet: Then i can program my bios to just never turn that fan on
Sweet: And when i use it i can then use a tool in Windows to turn it up
Fretwell: wouln't it be easyer to but the gpu inside a fridge?
Mirelle: The M40 stays cool under idle with almost no air-flow for me
Sweet: Great to hear since i was planning to install it in my system soon
Sweet: Even before the fan arrives
Sweet: Kinda depends on how long shipping will take though
Mirelle: If you're thinking idle with no fan, then it'll get tosty
Sweet: Idle with a tiny little bit of front fan?
Mirelle: but idle with like 500rpm fan would probably be OK
Mirelle: Don't know. Depends on the airflow in the case. I tried it in my server case (three 120s blowing through the back) and it couldn't handle a load. Didn't try an idle
Fretwell: i m thinking of getting a 3090 which has 12 or 24vram
Sweet: Ill spare myself the fanless attempt then
Sweet: 3090 with 12 would be a waste of money
Sweet: Then just get a 3060
Mirelle: Unless you want to game and sometimes do AI
Fretwell: mostly for gaming
Mirelle: But for AI 12G 3090 is a bit of a waste
Sweet: Still, 3090 kind of budget with only 12GB vram isn't worth it
Sweet: Go all the way or go cheaper xD
Mirelle: Ya, if you're dropping that kind of cash (assuming you don't go crazy with scalpers)....
Fretwell: but for a while a barrely played any games, just listening to music and watching videos or reading stuff
Fretwell: for now i might just get a better cpu and 16 more ram
Fretwell: i mostly play mc and i need a better cpu so i can render chunks faster
Sweet: Ram first
Sweet: Unless your new CPU requires a new board
Fretwell: 1.18.1 is a ram hog, i get ram issues with only 100 mods
Fretwell: and constant freezes
Sweet: My modpack was a ram hog to
Sweet: And thats on 1.70
Fretwell: 1.7.10 barrely took any ram
Fretwell: i was able to run some pretty huge modpacks with 8 ram
Fretwell: and it had over 400+ mods
Mirelle: I'll show my ignorance, what's mc?
Fretwell: minecraft
Mirelle: Ahhhh. Should have guessed
Fretwell: this is how much ram i have allocated
Fretwell: on fabric i have no issues with ram i have over 250+ mods and the ram barelly goes over 12 but mostly noticed that mc is mostly dependent on the cpu and ram
Sweet: I'd still need to remake my minecraft launcher so i can't easily launch my mod
Sweet: It uses mojang accounts
Sweet: But it was effectively minecraft on steroids
Sweet: But made to feel like old minecraft and with a persistant inventory
Sweet: So no parrying or anything like that, no food bars
Sweet: Still the spam click combat system
Sweet: Minecraft as i used to enjoy it but with much more in it
Fretwell: now they forced account migration
Sweet: Yeah, so nobody can use my mod pack xD
Fretwell: i personally like both combats as much
Fretwell: for pvp the spam click one is better but for pve the new one is more rewarding
Sweet: Given the toughness of everything in the world the spam clicking is desirable
Sweet: The mod pack is full of stuff
Sweet: Many different worlds
Sweet: Difficult creatures
Sweet: Boss mobs
Sweet: Etc
Fretwell: well the only thing that the spam click would be good is agains the ice and fire dragons
Sweet: Or these for example
Sweet: [Image attached]
Fretwell: that looks alot like the warden ngl
Sweet: They can ignite stuff and do quite a decent bit of knocking damage
Sweet: And they can jump up things
Sweet: So you can't just get on a tree or roof
Fretwell: are they from advent of ascension?
Sweet: Yup
Sweet: Advent of ascention is in the pack
Fretwell: its a pretty good rpg mod ngl
Sweet: Old version of Lycanites Mobs is in there to
Sweet: Same with generation raidable dungeons
Sweet: And that one that spawns like raidable casles and fortresses
Sweet: But also the good tech mods, farm mods, fishing mods
Sweet: Quake movement
Sweet: So you can do things like air strafing and bunny hopping
Fretwell: seems the mod won't get updates anymore, there seems that something happened to the mod creator
Fretwell: if you like the raidable castles and fortresses you should take a look at when dungeons arise it has quite a few massive structures that are acually pretty well built in terms of design and they are also challanging
Sweet: There is one version of minecraft i'd love to play but does not exist
Sweet: Let me see if i can find it
Fretwell: which one?
Sweet: To many minecraft content on youtube to find it back
Sweet: But it basically turned minecraft into a super good RPG, where you could really befriend the villagers, have kingdoms in the world, etc
Sweet: And then use them to do raids on other ones, protect your community, etc
Fretwell: oh
Fretwell: i think i have that modpack
Fretwell: i think it was called mineshadts and monsters
Fretwell: and it is for 1.16.4
Sweet: Looks neat, but i'm currently not going to redo an entire modpack from scratch xD
Fretwell: i think the world i m tryng to generate is broken lol
Sweet: [File URL attached]
Sweet: @Valerian I finally have the M40 up and running 😄
Sweet: And you should definately update your cuda driver
Sweet: Anything higher is compatible, anything lower isn't so updating to 11.6 saves you hassle
Sweet: So far mine has been keeping steady with the fan on 50% when in use
Sweet: And i might get away with the fan off entirely if its not recently been used
Sweet: Otherwise a very low fan speed is enough to hold it, but not enough to run multiple generations in a row
Sweet: So i am still trying to find the sweet spot
Sweet: Oddly noticing far longer loading times now that i have the GPU
Sweet: Even before it hits the GPU
Sweet: In WDDM mode i do indeed lose 2GB of VRAM, but with the benefit that Argus Monitor can detect the temp
Sweet: So now i have dynamic fan speed for the gpu in software 😄
Riehl: You can also train locally now, too!
Riehl: I think I need to talk to VE about getting the LS scanner working, the LUA keeps breaking. 😦
Sweet: Training it shat itself, but running so far goes great 😄
Sweet: Very pleased with my final setup, it runs passive when i am not using it, when it gets a certain temperature it automatically turns the loud fan on
Riehl: If you do local soft prompt training, you have to use a special "break model" that VE made.
Riehl: but happy to hear!
Riehl: 6B awesome. Pity I can't run any of the newer models. *sadness*
Sweet: I don't think breakmodel benefits me mine is a single GPU
Sweet: United has breakmodel for those now, needs testing
Riehl: I could try? which ones would you recommend?
Sweet: Fairseq 6B perhaps?
Sweet: --model KoboldAI/fairseq-dense-6.7B
Mirelle: @Henky!! I found, at least on linux, probably windows too, the M40 sits at ~70Watts of power with KoboldAI even when KoboldAI is idle. If you run this command (nvidia-smi -ac 405,324) it reduces that power to 16watts (and helps with heat). Turns out that if something is loaded in VRAM, the Mem clock stays at max, even though nothing is happening. running that command sets it down to 405, but it still spikes up to the previous value when in use.
Carena: That command does not work with every application, mind you. I don't have nvidia-smi ;)
Sweet: Its bundled with our M40 drivers, not all nvidia cards would have that indeed
Sweet: Neat, i indeed noticed it could be high
Sweet: I tried nvidia-smi -ac 3004,1114 so it would be allowed to have high clocks and it seems to persist in terms of power savings
Sweet: Looks like it could be a hardware / driver bug that if you set something gets fixed
Sweet: My command seems placebo
Sweet: Mine just sometimes stays a 69watts for a little but always goes back even on stock settings
Fretwell: i m planning on getting a new gpu, is it possibile to run kobold with an rtx 3060 and 2060 at the same time?
Carena: It is. It just splits the layers
Fretwell: like are the cuda versions compatibile?
Fretwell: an rtx 3060 is slightly more expensive than my current gpu
Carena: CUDA support for the 2060 might expire sooner than the 3060
Fretwell: would 14 gb of vram be enough for 6B?
Carena: 14Gb on Linux maybe, but note that Microsoft requires 20% of GPU for its own purposes
Fretwell: if is 2gb less than enough i should be able to get 10 layers full tokens
Mirelle: Huh. On mine it's definatly real. I moved the GPU in my case and my getto-fan method didn't work. If it's sitting at the 60W load it hits 89 degrees (new fan is coming today). If I run that command, it stays at 17W or so and runs at like 30-40 degrees.
Carena: I am in the process of getting accurate numbers on the fine-tuning speed, and having said that, I might also be able to calculate the speed at which you fine-tune. I do need some data though, which is the speed at which your graphics card can fine-tune a 125m model.
Jacinta: @mr_seeker Don't know how much data you managed to collect but if you want I can make a ML performance model to fill some gaps
Jacinta: Just did that for another project, although accuracy on extrapolation is not that great
Carena: ML performance model?
Jacinta: Machine learning, so we can get an estimate on how it would perform on a card for which we have no data